I am Queen Nanny, born in 1686 in Ghana, West
Africa. I was a leader of the Maroons who are
descendants of Africans in the Americas,
mainly people from the Akan. I am known
as an outstanding military leader against the
British in Jamaica. In my lifetime and after,
I become a symbol of unity and strength
for my people during times of crisis.
I arrived in Jamaica as a free woman from
Africa. I was particularly important to my
people in the fierce fight with the British,
during the First Maroon War from 1720 to 1739.
I was a small, wiry woman with piercing
eyes and exceptional leadership qualities.
My influence over the Maroons was so strong
aided with the powers of ancient spirits. I was
particularly skilled in organizing the guerilla
warfare and traps that confused the British.
Besides inspiring my people to ward off the
troops, I was also a type of wise woman of the
village, who passed down legends and encouraged
the continuation of customs, music and songs that
had come with the people from Africa, and which
instilled in them confidence and pride. My spirit
of freedom was so great that in 1739, when the
Jamaican co-leader signed the second Treaty with
the British, I was very angry and in disagreement
with the principle of peace with the British,
which I knew meant another form of subjugation.
There are many legends about me among the Maroons.
But all the legends and documents refer to
me, as a courageous and inspiring leader who
struggled to maintain the spirit of freedom,
and life of independence, which was their
rightful inheritance. I am the only woman to be
bestowed the Order of National Hero in Jamaica.
I stand as a reminder for all Jamaican women to
be brave when faced with adversity, injustice, and
oppression. When they ask why Jamaican are feisty,
tell them they got it from grandmother Nanny!